Assuming you're not a programmer, have you ever asked a programmer what he or
she works with? Most often you will get a vague "I work with computers" as an
answer. This is not because the programmer believes this to be a proper
description of her daytime duties, but because she is used to people quickly
zoning out when told about databases, On of the problems with programming is
that it is very hard to explain what we do problem starts right there, with the
title. People who are paid to produce software that runs on a computer have an
existential problem trying to explaing what they do and most importantly don't
do during their working days.

"Programmer" is only for people under 30, as it implies people who only works
with the computer.

"Architect". No respectable software developer wants to be labelled "architect"
because everyone knows that they really don't know anything. Which is exactly
the reason why some people aspire to the title. No more stressful allnighters
solving low level problems, only 9-5 whiteboard and Rational Rose sessions
declaring in a suitably unclear way what the enterprise architecture perhaps
could have looked like in 2 years if nothing in the world changed.

"Project Manager". Are you crazy? All they do is go around asking people about
statuses and then writing down the answers in a heavily templated Word document
which is sent to people more important than them. Repeat until retirement.

Some companies try to get away from this by allowing their employees to make up
their own titles. The result ranges from the funny ("code monkey") to the sad
("code monkey").

I myself have two solutions.

1. No title at all, or "Consultant" - which basically only tells you the legal
   coupling between me and the company I work for.
2. "Software Developer". I quite like this one, and I think more people should
   too. Because developing software is most often what I do. I am most never
   involved in doing hardware, or make that never as in never-never.
