# Why Do We Have IT?

Computers have become so ubiquitous, that we do need to remind
ourselves why we use them. We use computers to control car engines and
nuclear power plants, we use them to play games, edit photos.

In the business world we use computers to automate manual
processes. That is something that we tend to forget, because we've
become so used to doing it. Everyone has email, but what it does is
automate the sending of letters. We used to have, and I hear some
still have, internal mail, where you put paper in envelopes, and you
had actual people carrying them around delivering them to its intended
recipient. Your email system automates this, and if it is connected to
the Internet, it also automates what you used to pay the Postal
Service to do.

These days we are amazed by pictures of old offices, where row upon
row of office clerks all were doing repetitive tasks of handling
incoming payment slips, calculating monthly reports etc. These tasks
have also been automated using software.

Pretty much like the factory before it, the office has automated
repetitive, menial tasks. If you've ever uttered the phrase "a machine
could do this", chances are it could. Where manual repetitive tasks
were automated in the factory, repetitive thought processes have been
and continues to be automated.

The processes mentioned above were the first to be automated, and are
processes that are pretty much the same wherever you are. People don't
really differ that much when it comes to accounting, those who do are
seldom looked upon favorable by law enforcement agencies.

For these kind of processes, you can actually buy software that does
what you want to do. Very few people these days have reason to build
their own email server, or their own accounting system. Building
software is expensive, so it is normally well spent money to buy an
accounting system.

But then we have the processes where you don't do things like
everybody else. This is the stuff that defines your company, your
unique selling point and what sets you apart. Some of these processes
are repetitive, and can be automated. But should they?
